First, Dr. Burns, tell us something about your
early life, including the names of your parents,
the dates of their birth and death, the place of
their birth, the place and date of your birth, and
the schools you attended before entering Texas
A&M.
I was born in DeWitt County, Quirrell. Lived out in
the country a few miles from Quirrell. My father
was Lewis L. Burns. He died in
February 1928,
and he was 76 years old and nine months. That would
make his birthday. 1851.
My mother was Anna Wright and this was my father's
second wife. His first wife died
when she was about 30 or 35 years old.
My mother had two children. I have a sister eight
years older than I.
And my mother died in 1856, lacked just a few months
of being 90 years old. When you said 1856, you meant
1956. I beg your pardon, 1956. I
don't recall her exact date of birth, year. I was
born on October 16, 1901. Were you born in DeWitt
County? In DeWitt County. And do you remember
where your parents were born?
My father was born
in DeWitt County. My mother was point in DeWitt
County.
Did you go to school in Cuero or did you have a rural
school? No, I went to school in Cuero. Rode to
Horsback. How many miles? Oh, about three and a
half or four. I rode in a buggy and through the
fourth grade with my sister and then she finished
high school in 1912. And I finished in 1919. I rode a
horseback the remaining years. Was that, what, 11
years in the high school, or did you have 12? Eleven
years.
Okay. What factors were involved in your choice of
Texas A&M as a school?
Perhaps my father's love for it. He used to come to
these... Farmers Congress, as they called them
then.
Oh, perhaps not every year, but frequently.
And
from the time I could talk or walk, I think I was
destined to come to A&M.
How did you choose animal husbandry as your major?
I didn't choose it at first. My father asked me on
the way to the train, and I came up here as a freshman
in September 1919, what course I was going to take.
I said, well, I think I'll take electrical
engineering. And I did for one semester. Realized
that I was interested mainly in math. Math was my
favorite subject in high school. And I was never
interested in the practical applications of
electrical engineering. I realized I'd probably
end up teaching algebra and teaching was just a
jumping off place as far as I was concerned. I
wasn't interested and so I wrote to my father for
permission to Changed courses and being a miner at
that time. And took animal husbandry. Finished in
1923. Why did you choose animal husbandry? That's
kind of far removed from math. I guess because I was
born on a farm and ranch. And that had been my life up
until then.
Had you ever come to the campus with your father
when he attended any of the congresses? No. So you
had no firsthand knowledge of the area when you
arrived? No. What were your first reactions to the
school and to the community when you did get here?
Well, I guess with most freshmen it was entirely
new life. It was a big change for me. But I guess they
agreed with me and I picked up weight and grew a
little bit.
Were there any people to meet the train when you
arrived?
Any upperclassmen? Well, some freshmen were put
off the train at Navasota. How I escaped, I don't
know. Some were taken off, got off at Hempstead. at
Hempstead, some Navasota, and some Welborn. And
how I managed to get to College Station, I don't
know. You say they were taken off with this by
upperclassmen? Yes. I've been told that at one
point there were people who met the train to try to
recruit you for a particular military unit and
thereby a dormitory. No, not in my case. And I've
also been told that there were people who met the
train to sell freshman tickets to take a shower. I
didn't have that experience. You didn't have that
experience,
okay. I'm not sure how widespread or how long that
may have lasted, how widespread that may have been
or how long it may have lasted.
What dormitory were you assigned to then as a
freshman? Mitchell Hall, and I was in the signal
corps. Did you have a choice in that? Yes, I chose
it, and when I switched to animal husbandry, My
roommate did the same thing, so we
transferred to Company I infantry.
Was that because of your change of major? Oh yes,
you had to be an electrical engineering major to be
in signal corps. I see. Then did you get a choice
into which infantry company you transferred, or
did they just assign you to one that had an opening?
I don't recall, but there
were several students from my hometown in Company
I. Perhaps that was a factor in the choice.
Then when you switched to Company I Infantry, what
dorm did you go to? Bazell Hall. And that was what,
second half of your freshman year? Yes. Well,
having been in those two relatively new dorms, you
missed out on all the good things like carrying
water and wood and so forth for the upper class.
Yes, that was Austin Pfeiffer. Ross. Ross Foster,
I believe. Yes. Wow. Did you... What kinds of
things did you have to do for upperclassmen in the
newer dorms?
Oh, I don't recall. Making up beds, sweeping out,
and
that's about all I recall. Running errands.
Running errands, such as? Well, some were
foolish, and to carry things from Bazell Hall,
say, down to Milner or Leggett, the other end of the
campus, which wasn't very far.
But if you had to do it several times, it probably
seemed far. What other dormitories did you live
in?
During the sophomore year, I switched to the Air
Service, the old Air Service, and quite a few in
company. I went to the Cavalry when it was
organized, and some went to
the air service and we were assigned a room in Ross
Hall.
So then the air service and the cavalry were
created during your sophomore year or at the
beginning of it? The air service was. But the
cavalry was earlier than that. I think so. I
believe in the fall of 1920, if I'm not mistaken.
I'm not sure.
So then your sophomore year, you lived in Ross. The
latter part, yes. The latter part. Okay. Oh, so
then the switch to the air service was not made in
the fall of the supplement. May I make a correction
there? We made our choice in the spring of 21,
but we actually, my roommates were juniors. And we
roomed in Ross Hall during my junior year, not
sophomore year. Not sophomore year. Okay, do you
remember where it was in your sophomore year? In
Bazell Hall. In Bazell Hall. They dissolved
Company I, and we were in Company
H, I believe. I'm not positive. Okay. Where were
you then as a senior? in Foster Hall. So you had two
of the old ones during that time. How was the life in
the dormitory? Was it pretty crowded? How many
roommates did you have?
As a freshman in the Mitchell Hall, there were
three of us.
Two of us were freshmen, one sophomore. wasn't too
good an arrangement for the two freshmen.
Convenient for the sophomore. For the fish. And
in Vazell Hall, as a freshman, there were only two
of us. Both fish? Both of us were fish. In the
sophomore year, three of us sophomores roomed
together. In the junior year in Ross Hall, three of
us roomed together in triple-deckers,
triple-deck beds.
And then as a senior, I roomed in Foster Hall. We
were the overflow of the Air Service, the
remaining most
of the unit. were housed
in Pfeiffer. So Air Service had all old
dormitories. But do I understand it correctly
that there was an annual almost musical
dormitories that the various company's military
units shifted from one dormitory to another each
year so that the same company didn't have the same
old dormitory each year? Or do you recall?
Not that I recall.
Someone had indicated to me that he understood
this as the way it was. It might have been true, but I
don't recall. Of course, it may have changed at
times, too. They might have. Because the infantry
occupied Brazil and Goodwin for years.
You mentioned your triple-decker beds. Did the
college make them triple-decker, or did the
students do that? We had the
metal for a double-decker, but we had to improvise
on making the third one, stocking the third one on
top of the other two. How did you decide who got
which of the levels? We drew straws. Yes, that's as
fair a way as any, isn't it? Odd man out, or we drew
for it. I imagine depending upon the season of the
year, one level would certainly be more desirable
than the other, would it not?
I don't know. I happen to be the middle. draw the
middle ducker both years, so I don't know.
Probably got a little warm on the top one. Which
bottom one might be a little cool in the
wintertime. That's right. And it might be the most
desirable one in the summer, in the warmer weather
though. Yes. And the top one I imagine would be hot
always, summer or winter, up near the ceiling.
You mentioned earlier that during your freshman
year you gained some weight. This would indicate
that the food in the mess hall was probably
wholesome.
Well, sometimes you didn't get all the dessert.
You may not have had good pies, you just had to look
at them. But we got plenty of prunes. In fact, the
sophomores saved the prunes for the fish, for
prune races. And we got a little box of sun-made
raisins, one every day. And
the students would frequently, on picture show
nights,
get the old, what they call the air dome, the open,
located just about where the all-face chapel is
now, a little bit south of that. between that and
either law or prayer year.
And then they'd have,
throw these raisins,
and then if they had potatoes, or they'd save their
potatoes, ice potatoes, take them over to the, I
don't, and get to throwing those at each other. And
it was pretty slimy to get out of there. The floors
got pretty thick. You mentioned prune races.
Could you describe what a prune race was? It was
merely, I guess, sophomores, particularly those
who didn't care for prunes, but saved them. or the
upperclassmen in general, and then they'd pick
out some of the fish and see who could eat the most
prunes in the shortest time.
What happened to the loser? I don't recall that.
How would you, you know, if you were going to kind of
give a general summation to the food in the mess
hall, well, let's see, the motels are, and the tour
books describe them as one, two, three, and four
stars. On up, you know, four stars would be top
quality. How would you rate the food overall? I
thought it did all of us good, but they didn't have
the variety they do now. I think the menu has
improved immensely since those days, but
I never did see too much wrong. I still think the
mess hall makes the best fruit pies I ever ate. I
imagine the lack of variety in a mess hall was not at
all unusual, though. Well, it cooked in large
quantities. It didn't taste like it did at home.
But
I didn't think it particularly bad. What I was
about to say is I would imagine that even at home you
didn't get a whole lot of variety either. Probably
not. I mean, you got vegetables in season,
probably did some home canning, but it was
probably not the variety of stuff that there is in
the general public today.
You mentioned the movies in the Air Dome. How
frequently were they held? Saturday night, I'm
sure. It seems to me that they had one during the
week also. Did you have to pay for those or were they
free? No, they cost us, I don't know, 10 or 15 cents.
Quite reasonable. What other types of things did
you do for recreation and entertainment?
Well, there was always a game going on. Handball
or...
Of course, there weren't many tennis courts then,
but playing football, basketball, and of course
had company, or battalion football.
The attendance was very good on those battalion
games. In fact, I enjoyed battalion games as well.
I did the varsity games.
I had some indication from somebody that, what, I
believe Bible was coached when you were here? Yes.
That he attended those quite regularly and picked
out a few football players. That's right. From
those. I guess at that point there was not the
terrific amount of scouting and recruiting that
we have today, so he pretty much had to pick his team
from... those who showed up for practice, and then
if he could pick a few others out from the... Was it
called intramural then, or was it... No, I don't
think it was called intramural. They called it
battalion. Battalion football, battalion
basketball, and battalion cross-country.
About walking... Plenty of places to walk around
here. What about swimming? No, the only swimming
pool that I know of was in the YMCA, in the basement
of the YMCA. Eventually it was covered over and
I've forgotten what, I think they made offices
over there. Was Casey's confectionery still
there when you were a student? Oh, yes. It was going
strong. In fact, I think it had been there, I don't
know when that was organized, a year or two before,
but I think Bill Sparks was in the class of 18, I
believe. I'm not sure. Now, was he the one who
operated there? He and Casey both. In fact,
Mr. Lavender, who operated the YMCA barbershop,
I think sold his share in that for $1 to Bill Sparks.
And I think Bill had that, or Mr. Lavender had that
framed.
But Bill and Casey were pretty good partners.
Did students go to Bryan very much? By trolley or
walk. They frequently go to Bryan on Saturday
afternoon to a picture show or just to be going
somewhere and they had a
trailer, an open trailer to the to the streetcar.
The streetcar, they were hanging from the
streetcar, and they put the trailer on. And over
about halfway between here and Bryan, coming
back, why, somebody from the upper car would
unhook it.
And sometimes, a little while before the skipper,
would realize he didn't have the load he was
supposed to. He'd back up and pick us up. But it
reminded me, the
cable cars in San Francisco, the way they hang on to
that reminded me of the way they did the old
streetcar, and the trailer particularly.
It had a roof but open sides. Did they have the
trailer just on like Saturdays when they were
expecting the big crowd? In larger crowds, yes.
Otherwise it ran on the hour and I remember Joe
Howell, who was registrar here for many years
preceded Mr. Heaton and then was president of John
Tarleton, sold tickets. right between, right
outside of Speza Hall. Now was there actually a
station there?
Or did they just have a little stand from which they
sold tickets?
Joe hawked them. He just walked up down the street
selling tickets.
Calling out tickets for the trolley.
So the train, the trolley just came onto campus and
stopped? Stopped just about where, between Speza